[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: What we're gonna do is,
we're gonna create an API to
consume some data about lions.
Just Internet cats.
So first we should determine what
the actual resource looks like and
we can model this in JSON.
When I say resource, I mean what
does the actual lion look like,
cuz we're gonna be making this
thing that consumes lions.
What does a lion object look like?
We need to model that first.
I'm just gonna show you what
that looks like in JSON.
This is what our data's gonna look like.
So it's gonna be an object that has
a name property, ana ID property,
a pride property where the lion pride
belongs to, and then a gender property.
So, that's what a lion looks like.
So this is us modeling our resource or
our data.
So it's like the first step.
Cuz everything is built around how your
data is modeled, so it's always good to
start off modeling your data first
because if you do that last,
[LAUGH] you're gonna
run into some problems.
So definitely model your data first and
know what your application's gonna be
working with,
what it's gonna be consuming, and
that's gonna help you out and it's gonna
allow you to build mock things out.
Without having to wait on
on the backend to build up.
Because if you are a front end developer
and I gave you this JSON object and
was like, here,
this is what the data's gonna look like.
You can like, okay,
I don't have to wait on you anymore.
I can just go mock this stuff out.
Right, cuz I know what
the data looks like.
Whereas if the back end person didn't
give you this first and was like,
I'm not doing the data until the end,
then how do you, as a front engineer,
know what to do,
what the data's gonna look like?
So it's really great
to start with this and
it helps you out with
the rest of the application.
This is a basic example
of modeling your data.
When you get into databases and
stuff, of course,
it will be more difficult than this and
a little more work you got to put in.
A little more thought as far as
relations between models and
stuff like that, but,
on the simplest level, this is all it is.
This is just representing
a adjacent object of our lion.
Any questions on that?
All right, so
when you hear me say the term resource,
this is what I'm talking about.
So, protect your resources,
how do we access our resources.
The resources is the data.
These are the resources, the actual data.
So, next we should design
the routes to access the resource.
So following REST,
we want to use the HTTP verbs.
So the main ones we're gonna be using
are gonna be get, post, put, and delete.
Who is here not familiar
with those HTTP verbs?
Okay.
So get request means I'm trying to ask for
something.
Post means I'm going
to give you something.
Put means I'm going to update something.
And delete means I'm
gonna delete something.
So, we've come up with a term for
that, and that's called CRUD.
Create, read, update,
delete, or I guess destroy,
not delete, that should be destroy,
but same thing.
So we will be performing CRUD
operations on the resource.
So you'll hear that a lot if
you've never heard that before.
I'm gonna be using it a lot,
you'll hear that a lot,
when you develop APIs and stuff.
You wanna perform CRUD on
some types of resource.
Create, read, update, destroy or delete.
Cuz that's really what applications
are about, is doing that.
So again we're gonna diagram how that
looks like, as far as the routes, and
what we expect when we do
certain verbs on certain routes,
and what we should get back.
So we're gonna diagram
that with JSON as well.
So here is a JSON diagram of that.
So how we read is if I do
a get request to /lions,
I expect it to return all the lions and
the response should
be a 200 and
its type should be application json and
it should be an array of objects.
>> Speaker 1: So
going back to REST, this is like the URL
structure that I was talking about.
Just by the URL,
I know exactly what resource I'm
gonna get because it's called lions.
So I know that this is the lions
resource because of the naming here.
It's not that deep, so it's not that
good of an example, but because of REST,
I say /lions,
I know I'm getting the lions resource.
And because I do a get request to lions,
I should get back all the lions,
and it should be an array of
every lion and it should be json.
So the next one is /lion/id, so
here's the URL a little deeper.
So all lions have an id.
So here's that directory-like structure.
So, if we think about it as lions,
as an object,
all right, they have an id property on it,
so /lions/id.
That's the URL structure
that I was talking about.
So if I do a get request
to /lions/ some number,
it should return one lion
represented by that id.
It should be response of
200 application json and
it should just be
an object of that one line.
Is everybody following here?
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: I have a question.
Are we actually defining routes and return
values or are you just laying it out?
>> Speaker 1: I'm just laying it out.
This is a blueprint.
Yeah, we're not doing anything right now.
This is just a blueprint.
Yeah, all right, cool, yeah.
I just chose JSON because
we all know JSON.
Most people define their API
blueprints in something called YMAL or
some other thing like that.
So, or even markdown, but I'm just
doing it in JSON cuz we all know JSON.
But yeah, we are not defining anything.
You will be defining something.
And this is the blueprint that
you're gonna use to define those
things in a minute.
But we are not defining it right now.
I just wanna walk through this
blueprint to help you understand
how I came up with this stuff.
It just wasn't off the top of my head,
this is RESTful stuff right here.
And then if we do a post request a lion,
that should create and
return a new lion using
a posted object as the lion.
So post means I'm gonna give
the resource some object, and
I'm expecting the resource to create
something with that object and
then I expect after the creation, I expect
the object to be returned back to me.
If you think about it, that makes sense,
because think about if you're
making a to do app and you type something
in, you hit Enter and you made a new todo.
And it went to the server and
it created it but
the server never responded
back with a new todo.
How would you update your UI?
So you need a server to come in like,
okay, here's the thing that will just
create it when its ID cuz most of the time
the database creates the ID for you, and
you need that in your UI for
whatever reason.
So the server should respond back
with the thing that it just created,
after it created it, or
an error if it couldn't.
So the response for
that should be a 201 successful post,
that's their HTTP status code for that.
200 works as well but 201 is the actual
status code for a successful creation.
application/json and it should just
send back that one lion that it made.
I don't need an ID here because
I'm not referencing something, I'm
creating something, so I'm gonna send you
an object, just create the lion for me.
But I do need a ID here because
I'm referencing something,
I'm trying to update something
that exists on the server.
So put, just like with the GET1 up here,
it's gonna take an ID and it's
going to update and return the matching
lion, with the posted update object.
So what that means is you do a put
request with the server, with the ID, and
then an object of the things that
you want to update the lion.
For instance, let's say you want
to update the name and the age,
so you'll post an object with
a new name and a newage.
And the, what I'm expecting to happen is
for you to find that lion whose ID matches
the one that I asked you and to update
those values of the object that I posted
and then return the newly
updated object to me as Json.
And, it should be just one object,
it shouldn't be an array.
>> Speaker 1: Everybody following me
on this so far?
So this is just the blueprint.
This is REST.
This is, believe it or not, almost all the
services you use now are just like this.
If you ever consumed any API, it was
probably like this, something close to it.
Some people get kind of crazy with
their APIs but something like this.
A good API that I can off the top of my
head think of that follows this pretty
good is Parse.
If you ever used Parse before,
they follow API, REST, to the t,
they're really good at that.
>> Speaker 1: And
then the last one is delete.
So if we do delete request,
two slash lines ID, same thing,
we need a ID here cuz we're
referencing an ID on the server.
So we need to find it, and
what I expect to happen is for
you to delete it from the collection
of resources, and return the thing
that you just deleted with a response
of 200 and then just that one object.
So that's the blueprint of all these
specific CRUD actions we can do
on one resource, yes.
>> Speaker 2: Any opinion or
use of patch versus put?
>> Speaker 1: I don't,
I don't have an opinion, I don't know the
differences well enough to have a really
good opinion on the two things, but yeah,
I don't really have an opinion on that,
I usually just use put.
>> Speaker 1: Okay,
so now that we have our resources and
our routes modded out,
we can actually start building
this API with Express.
So we're gonna use this
as our blueprint and
we're actually gonna build out these
routes that serve these resources.
And there's gonna be a little website on
the frontend that is gonna consume this so
it's gonna be expecting this.
And then for extra credit,
if you really know REST and
you really want to get really good with
it, you can allow query params on the get
request to allow filtering and
ordering of the lions.
So what that means,
when I say query params,
I mean if I were to come in here and
was like, on the URL and
I was like, yeah, sorts by name or
something like that.
And then you could do stuff like that,
so that's also part of REST.
So if you know how to do that,
totally do that, but you don't have to.